How to cut the Iberian ham Cinco Jotas
the very important first issue is where to start slicing
it would be perfect
cut off the whole top
to be able to get slices of ham from its various sides
four different flavors, four different aromas and aromas
inside one, the same ham
for home consumption, it's best to start slicing from 'la Maza'
preparation
we will start cutting
we will need a whole set of tools
no doubt I think that they are a good friend of everyone who deals with cutting Jamón Ibérico
we will need three knives for the cutting time
the first one will only serve to start cutting the first layer removal
smaller knife for selection
and at the very end, a very flexible knife called 'jamonero'
to obtain thin slices of Jamon Ibérico ham
we take the first knife, we make a small incision
at the width of two fingers above the small bone, paying attention to the product
another important factor is temperature
two storage temperatures of the whole
at a time when we have not yet started eating and consuming
in the first case the temperature should be between 14 and 18 degrees
storage temperature while consuming is very important
it should be from 20 to 24 degrees
this will affect the organoleptic sensation of the ham
as you can see, we're now taking out the top layer of ham
but only the part that you will want to eat at this time
slicing
we cut the first slices that have the most fat
they will serve us for the subsequent maintenance of the ham
by covering meat that has not been cut yet
as you see, we do not use force to cut,
just slip the ham gently with a knife
we can enjoy the wonderful fragrance of the extraordinary 5J ham
you can feel the slice while rubbing
how fat easily melts is a sign that the product is of excellent quality
at this point we will use the smallest knife
where we separate the meat from the existing bone
in this way, the knife we ​​cut with slices will not touch the bones,
so it will not be exposed to blunting
As you can see, the knife does not touch the bone when cutting
in the previously selected point just jumps
which greatly facilitates cutting
now we repeat the previous act of cleansing meat from the first layer
at the moment the tip of the knife
we separate the layer creating a small channel that has two tasks
firstly for aesthetic reasons
second - more important,
fat and lipids will leak into this place
we repeat the activity of chopping the bones, using each piece of ham jamon Iberico 5J
How to make the most of the 5J product
We have reached the point where we see the entire bone
I touch a knife in different places
the bone is heard
as you can see, we use every scrap of Jamon Iberico Cinco Jotas
we turn the ham over
we cut the top part
when the whole top is cut
proceed to cut a small bone
first we locate
then cut through to the long bone
and we break gently without using too much force
now the work will be much more convenient
we take a small knife
and we repeat the act of separating the meat from the bone which will make our work easier
now when we continue cutting
in an easy way we can get perfectly thin slices
as we can see, this part of the ham is slightly different from the previous one
it is more muscular, it is equally appetizing
we are approaching the end of cutting
we left the last part,
in my opinion, not fully known, we will use everything in this way
At the moment, Jamon Iberico is slightly inclined
the slices that we now obtain will be wide, equally appetizing
last part
using the smallest knife
we will cut off the tiny cartilage
in this place we can slice ham into slices
be small cubes
Jamon Iberico was cut up
making the most of every piece of meat
if we combine the pure race jamon iberico de bellota
healthy food
what was born in Jabugo
we will receive Jamon 5J a real national treasure of Spain